# ECO-BRAILLE---VOICE-TO-BRAILLE-EMBOSSER-
Voice to Braille Embosser recognizes the voice of the speaker and converts it into Braille and then embosses the data onto braille paper.

PROBLEM STATEMENT : 
Individuals experiencing visual impairments often rely on Braille as their primary mode of reading and writing. Moreover, the existing high costs of conventional Braille printers, ranging from 50,000 INR to 1,30,000 INR, present a formidable obstacle for people with visual impairments, rendering the acquisition of personal Braille devices impractical. Although ongoing efforts aim to develop more cost-effective alternatives, the technical intricacies inherent in Braille representation, the precision required for embossing, and the limited market size for specialized devices pose significant challenges in devising economical solutions. So there is a need for a cost-effective and efficient system that empowers visually impaired individuals to seamlessly interact with the real world.

PROPOSED SYSTEM :
The system comprises a microphone for voice capture, which subsequently converts the audio signals into electric signals. These signals undergo a twostep conversion process, first into English text then to braille script then into Gcode which is the most widely used computer numerical control for 3D printing programming language, which will then be used by the plotter, facilitated by the Raspberry Pi. This G-code data is utilized by the Braille embosser, employing an electromagnetic tau as the embossing head, to emboss Braille characters onto Braille paper. In conjunction with the embossing process, a camera is used for reading Braille scripts. This camera, captures the Braille scripts and using machine learning algorithms, Braille data is obtained and converts them into English text. Then converts this text into voice signals, facilitated by the Raspberry Pi and output through a speaker, completing the system’s comprehensive functionality.
